Custom domain names
===================

All Heroku apps are accessible via their heroku.com subdomain:
`appname.heroku.com`. Enabling the custom domains [add-on](/addons) allows you
to assign additional custom and wildcard domain names.

You can use the Zerigo DNS add-on for completely managed DNS service
(recommended), or use your own DNS provider and manually configure CNAME or A
records (root-level domains only) for your domains.

CNAME setup
-----------

Set up your domain with your registrar, then select the subdomain that you wish
to point at your Heroku app. This could be something like `myapp.mycompany.com`,
or the standard `www.mydomain.com`, or it could be the root-level domain,
`mydomain.com`.

Configure your DNS provider to make your chosen custom domain name be an alias
which points to `proxy.heroku.com`. In DNS terms this is known as a CNAME.

Check that your DNS is configured correctly with the `host` command:

    $ host www.example.com
    www.example.com is an alias for proxy.heroku.com.
    proxy.heroku.com has address 75.101.163.44
    proxy.heroku.com has address 75.101.145.87
    proxy.heroku.com has address 174.129.212.2 

Output of the host command varies by Unix flavor, but it should indicate that
your domain name is either an alias or CNAME of `proxy.heroku.com`.

This screencast will walk you through setting up DNS on Heroku with CNAMEs:

<object width="500" height="375"><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true" /><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always" /><param name="movie" value="http://vimeo.com/moogaloop.swf?clip_id=6917278&amp;server=vimeo.com&amp;show_title=1&amp;show_byline=1&amp;show_portrait=0&amp;color=00ADEF&amp;fullscreen=1" /><embed src="http://vimeo.com/moogaloop.swf?clip_id=6917278&amp;server=vimeo.com&amp;show_title=1&amp;show_byline=1&amp;show_portrait=0&amp;color=00ADEF&amp;fullscreen=1" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowfullscreen="true" allowscriptaccess="always" width="500" height="375"></embed></object>

Root domains and custom mail servers
------------------------------------

NOTE: Due to Heroku's cloud architecture, the public IP addresses may need to be
changed from time to time. When using the A record configuraiton, be aware that
we may request that you change your settings at some point in the future.  We
will provide advance notice, but if you do not update your addresses, your site
may stop working.  For this reason, we <strong>strongly</strong> encourage
the CNAME option when possible.

Root domains with custom mail servers (MX records) must use A instead of CNAME
records. Only your root domain (`mydomain.com`) may use A records. Non root
domains (`www.mydomain.com`) must use the CNAME setup described above.

To setup your root domain, add separate A records for each of the following
addresses using your DNS management tool:

    75.101.163.44
    75.101.145.87
    174.129.212.2

Check that your DNS is configured correctly with the "host" command:

    $ host example.com
    example.com has address 75.101.163.44
    example.com has address 75.101.145.87
    example.com has address 174.129.212.2

<object width="500" height="375"><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true" /><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always" /><param name="movie" value="http://vimeo.com/moogaloop.swf?clip_id=6918287&amp;server=vimeo.com&amp;show_title=1&amp;show_byline=1&amp;show_portrait=0&amp;color=00ADEF&amp;fullscreen=1" /><embed src="http://vimeo.com/moogaloop.swf?clip_id=6918287&amp;server=vimeo.com&amp;show_title=1&amp;show_byline=1&amp;show_portrait=0&amp;color=00ADEF&amp;fullscreen=1" type="application/x-shockwave-flash" allowfullscreen="true" allowscriptaccess="always" width="500" height="375"></embed></object>

Heroku setup
------------

Once you've installed the [Zerigo DNS add-on](zerigo) or manually configured your DNS, you can proceed to enabling the custom domains [add-on](/addons) for the app:

    $ heroku addons:add custom_domains
    Adding wildcard_domains to myapp...done.

Then inform Heroku of the domain you are using:

    $ heroku domains:add www.example.com
    Added www.example.com as a custom domain name to myapp.heroku.com

You can add any number of domains to a single app by repeating the add command
with different values.

Remove domains with:

    $ heroku domains:remove myapp.mydomain.com
    Removed www.example.com as a custom domain name to myapp.heroku.com

You can also clear all the domains at once (often the easiest even if you only
have one domain):

    $ heroku domains:clear
    Removed all domain names for myapp.heroku.com

NOTE: If you have multiple domains, or your app has users that access it via its
Heroku subdomain but you later switched to your own custom domain, you will
probably want to get all users onto the same domain with a redirect in a before
filter.  Something like this will do the job:

    {ruby}
    class ApplicationController
      before_filter :ensure_domain

      TheDomain = 'myapp.mydomain.com'

      def ensure_domain
        if request.env['HTTP_HOST'] != TheDomain
          redirect_to TheDomain
        end
      end
    end

Wildcard domains
----------------

If you'd like your app to respond to any subdomain under your custom domain name
(as in `*.yourdomain.com`), you'll need to use the wildcard domains add-on.
First, select the add-on:

    $ heroku addons:add wildcard_domains
    Adding wildcard_domains to myapp...done.
    $ curl http://arbitrary-subdomain.myapp.heroku.com/
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK

To use with a custom domain, configure your registrar to point
`*.yourdomain.com` at heroku.com.  If things are set up correctly you should be
able to look up any arbitrary subdomain:

    $ host arbitrary-subdomain.yourdomain.com
    arbitrary-subdomain.yourdomain.com is an alias for heroku.com.

Then add the wildcard domain on Heroku:

    $ heroku domains:add *.yourdomain.com
    Added *.yourdomain.com as a custom domain name to myapp.heroku.com
    $ curl http://arbitrary-subdomain.yourdomain.com/
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
